---
layout: page
permalink: /publications/
title: publications
description: #publications by categories in reversed chronological order. generated by jekyll-scholar...
nav: true
nav_order: 2
---

- **Dalaiden, Q.**, Abram, N.J., Goosse, H., and Holland, P., Unravelling the factors driving West Antarctic atmospheric circulation changes over the 20th century: the role of tropical climate and human activities, *In preparation*
- Fogt, R, **Dalaiden, Q.** and O'Connor, G.K., A Comparison of South Pacific Antarctic Sea Ice and Atmospheric Circulation Reconstructions Since 1900, *Climate of the Past*, *In review* (2023).
- **Dalaiden, Q.**, Rezsöhazy, J., Goosse, H., Thomas, E.R., Vladimirova, D. O., and Tetzner, D., An unprecedented sea ice retreat in the Weddell Sea driving an overall decrease of the Antarctic sea ice extent over the 20th century, *Geophysical Research Letters*, *In revision* (2023).
- Lyu Z., Goosse, H., **Dalaiden, Q.**, Crosta, X. and Etourneau, J., Widespread cooling over West Antarctica and adjacent seas over the past millennium, *Global and Planetary Change*, https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4305700 (2023).
- **Dalaiden, Q.**, Schurer, A.P., Kirchmeier-Young, M.C., Goosse, H. and Hegerl, G., West Antarctic surface climate changes since the mid-20th century driven by anthropogenic forcing, *Geophysical Research Letters*, 49, e2022GL099543 (2022).
- Rezsöhazy, J., **Dalaiden, Q.**, Klein, F., Goosse, H., and Guiot, J. Using a process-based dendroclimatic proxy system model in a data assimilation framework: a test case in the Southern Hemisphere over the past centuries, *Climate of the Past*, 18, 2093–2115 (2022).
- Verfaillie, D., Pelletier, C., Goosse, H., Jourdain, N. C., Bull, C. Y. S., **Dalaiden, Q.**, Favier, V., Fichefet, T. and Wille, J. (2022). The circum-Antarctic ice-shelves respond to a more positive Southern Annular Mode with regionally varied melting, *Communications Earth & Environment*, 1, https://doi.org/10.1038/s43247-022-00458-x (2022).
- Ghilain, N., Vannitsem, S., **Dalaiden, Q.**, Goosse H., De Cruz, L.  and Wei, W. Reconstruction of daily snowfall accumulation at 5.5km resolution over Dronning Maud Land, Antarctica, from 1850 to 2014 using an analog-based downscaling technique, *Earth System Science Data*, 14, 1901–1916, https://doi.org/10.5194/essd-14-1901-2022 (2021).
- Lyu, Z., Goosse, H., **Dalaiden, Q.**, Klein, F., Shi, F., Wagner, S. & Braconnot, P. Spatial patterns of multi–centennial surface air temperature trends in Antarctica over 1–1000 CE: Insights from ice core records and modeling, *Quaternary Science Reviews*, 271 (2021).
- **Dalaiden, Q.**, Goosse, H., Rezsohazy, J. and Thomas, E. R. Reconstructing atmospheric circulation and sea-ice extent in the West Antarctic over the past 200 years using data assimilation, *Climate Dynamics*, 57, 3479–3503 (2021).
- Goosse, H., **Dalaiden, Q.**, Cavitte, M. and Zhang, L. Can we reconstruct the formation of large open ocean polynyas in the Southern Ocean using ice core records? *Climate of the Past*, 17, 111–131 (2021).
- Crosta, X., Etourneau, J., Orme, L., **Dalaiden, Q.**, Campagne, P., Swingedouw, D., Goosse, H., Massé, G., Miettinen, A., McKay, R., Dunbar, R., Escutia, C. and Ikehara, M. Multi-decadal trends in Antarctic sea-ice extent driven by ENSO-SAM over the last 2000 years, *Nature Geoscience*, 14, 156–160 (2021).
- **Dalaiden, Q.**, Goosse, H., Lenaerts, J. T. M., Cavitte, M. G. P. and Henderson, N. Future Antarctic snow accumulation trend is dominated by atmospheric synoptic-scale events, *Communications Earth & Environment*, 1, 1–9 (2020).
- Cavitte, M., **Dalaiden, Q.**, Goosse, H., Lenaerts, J.T.M. and Thomas, E.R. Reconciling the surface temperature–surface mass balance relationship in models and ice cores in Antarctica over the last two centuries, *The Crysophere*, 14, 4083–4102 (2020).
- **Dalaiden, Q.**, Goosse, H., Klein, F., Lenaerts, J. T. M., Holloway, M., Sime, L. and Thomas, E. R. How useful is snow accumulation in reconstructing surface air temperature in Antarctica? A study combining ice core records and climate models, *The Cryosphere*, 14, 1187–1207 (2020).
- Vannitsem, S., **Dalaiden, Q.** and Goosse, H. Testing for Dynamical Dependence: Application to the Surface Mass Balance Over Antarctica, *Geophysical Research Letters*, 46, 12125–12135 (2019).
- Goosse, H., Barriat, P.-Y., **Dalaiden, Q.**, Klein, F., Marzeion, B., Maussion, F., Pelucchi, P. and Vlug, A. Testing the consistency between changes in simulated climate and Alpine glacier length over the past millennium, *Climate of the Past*, 14, 1119–1133, (2018).
- **Dalaiden, Q.**, Goosse, H., Lecomte, O. & Docquier, D. A model to interpret driftwood transport in the Arctic, *Quaternary Science. Reviews*, 191, 89–100 (2018).
